@node compose,meeting,event loop,Top

This (a-sync compose) library file provides a compose-a-sync macro
interface for the a-sync procedure provided by the
@ref{coroutines,,(a-sync coroutines)} library file.

@deffn {Syntax} (compose-a-sync [loop] ((var await-exp0) ...) await-exp1 await-exp2 ...)
This library file provides the compose-a-sync macro.  This does two
things: first, it calls a-sync for you and deals with the resulting
'await' and 'resume' procedures without exposing them, which for many
simple uses makes a-sync easier to use; and secondly it enables
asynchronous tasks to be more easily composed on an event loop with
intermediate results, by using a let* type syntax (in fact, let* is
used internally).

The 'loop' argument of compose-a-sync is optional.  If an event loop
constructed by make-event-loop is passed to 'loop', then that is the
main loop on which the tasks will be composed, otherwise if there is
no 'loop' argument given, the default main loop will be used.  This is
followed by bindings which are optional (there need not be any), each
of which must be initialised by an expression comprising the
application of a 'compose-a-sync'-capable procedure, and following the
bindings there must be a body of 'compose-a-sync'-capable procedures
executed solely for the purpose of asynchronous side effects (this
macro does not, and cannot, return a value because as soon as the
first await is made control is passed to the event loop).  As in the
case of let*, unlike the bindings the body cannot be empty - there
must be at least one expression comprising the application of a
'compose-a-sync'-capable procedure in the body.

As in the case of let*, each 'compose-a-sync'-capable procedure
initializing a binding can see the values of the initializations made
prior to it.  Unlike let*, compose-a-sync blocks cannot be nested
within other compose-a-sync blocks.  Furthermore, within a
compose-a-sync block, the result obtained from a
'compose-a-sync'-capable procedure cannot be passed directly as an
argument to another 'compose-a-sync'-capable procedure: the
intermediate result must be stored as the value of a binding in the
compose-a-sync block.

A 'compose-a-sync'-capable procedure is one which takes an 'await' and
'yield' procedure from a-sync as its first and second arguments, and
(if the optional 'loop' argument of this macro is used) takes the
event loop as its third argument, followed by such further arguments
as it requires.  All of the await-task!, await-task-in-thread!,
await-task-in-event-loop!, await-yield!, await-generator!,
await-generator-in-thread!, await-generator-in-event-loop!,
await-timeout!, await-sleep!, await-getline!, await-geteveryline!,
await-getsomelines!, await-getblock!, await-geteveryblock!,
await-getsomeblocks!, await-put-bytevector! and await-put-string!
procedures provided by the @ref{event loop,,(a-sync event-loop)}
library file are 'compose-a-sync'-capable.  In addition, to make an
ordinary body of code which does not block (and which does not need to
invoke a-sync's await procedure) usable by compose-a-sync, the
no-await macro can be used to generate a 'compose-a-sync'-capable
procedure for it (see below).

Each binding is initialized as if sequentially (although it is done
asynchronously on the relevant event loop).  An initialization does
not begin until an earlier one has completed.  In addition, each
clause in the body is executed sequentially in turn, but does so
asynchronously on the event loop using 'await' semantics.

When calling a 'compose-a-sync'-capable procedure within a
'compose-a-sync' block (including when initializing its bindings), the
'await' and 'yield' and event-loop arguments are not explicitly passed
to it.  The compose-a-sync macro will do it for you.

@example
(set-default-event-loop!) ;; if none has yet been set
(compose-a-sync ([line (await-getline! (open-input-file "/dev/tty"))])
	      ((no-await (format #t
				 "The line was: ~A\n"
				 line))))
(event-loop-run!)
@end example

Each block of code within a compose-a-sync block will run
independently of (and concurrently with) code in other compose-a-sync
blocks.  Asynchronous operations are only serialized within any one
compose-a-sync block.  As soon as any code calls a-sync's 'await'
procedure in a compose-a-sync block, compose-a-sync will return and
begin executing whatever follows it, and further execution of the
compose-a-sync block will occur within the event loop concerned.

Other examples of the use of this macro are given in the documentation
of the @ref{coroutines,,(a-sync coroutines)} library file.

This macro must (like the a-sync procedure) be called in the same
thread as that in which the event loop runs.
@end deffn

@deffn {Syntax} (no-await body0 body1 ...)
This macro will generate a 'compose-a-sync'-capable procedure from a
body of code which does not block.  It can be passed to
compose-a-sync, either for use as an initializer or as a clause in its
body.  When used as an initializer, it evaluates to the value of the
last expression in the 'no-await' body.

If the body throws an exception which is not caught locally, it will
propagate out of event-loop-run!.

Here is an example of the use of no-await:

@example
(var ((no-await (+ a b))))
@end example
@end deffn
