@node meeting,try,compose,Top

As explained in the @ref{overview,,general overview}, each 'a-sync'
block (see @ref{coroutines,,(a-sync coroutines)}) or 'compose-a-sync'
block (see @ref{compose,,(a-sync compose)}) is a separate unit of
computation which appears within itself to proceed sequentially but
which also appears to execute concurrently with other 'a-sync' or
'compose-a-sync' blocks running on the same event loop.  Each 'a-sync'
or 'compose-a-sync' block is therefore in some sense analogous to a
thread of execution.

This (a-sync meeting) library file provides a 'meeting' type which can
be used to synchronize between such "pseudo-threads" (that is, between
a-sync or compose-a-sync blocks).  A 'meeting' object is, in terms of
communicating sequential processes, an unbuffered (synchronous)
channel.  Unbuffered channels in the CSP style are a natural fit for
use with coroutines running on a single native thread (but not
necessarily for native threads running in parallel unless combined
with work stealing).  They are therefore a natural fit for
synchronizing the "pseudo-threads" provided by this library.

Some of the things that can be done by using meetings can also be done
using await-generator!.  Note also that any one meeting object is
strictly for use by two "pseudo-threads" which are both running on the
same event loop, and so 'ipso facto' running in the same native OS
thread.  To have other native OS threads communicate with an
event-loop, use await-task-in-thread!, await-task-in-event-loop!,
await-generator-in-thread! or await-generator-in-event-loop! (see
@ref{event loop,,(a-sync event-loop)}).  Having said that, some
things, such as having one "pseudo-thread" join on another
"pseudo-thread", are more easily done with meeting objects.

A "pseudo-thread" enters a meeting by applying meeting-receive (where
it is to receive a datum at the meeting) or meeting-send (where it is
to provide the datum) to the meeting object.  Once a "pseudo-thread"
enters a meeting it cannot leave until its co-operating pair also
enters the meeting so the datum exchange can take place, or until the
meeting-close procedure is applied.  Once a datum exchange has taken
place, the meeting object can be reused for making another exchange
(provided the meeting object has not been closed).

Synchronization occurs at the moment that the exchange of the datum
takes place.  Once one of the "pseudo-threads" leaves the meeting upon
meeting-receive or meeting-send (or both) returning, all subsequent
events are unsynchronized until another datum exchange is arranged.
This means that where two "pseudo-threads" share access to objects
other than the datum exchanged and they might be mutated, one
"pseudo-thread" is guaranteed to see a value of the unexchanged shared
objects which is not earlier than the value they held at the moment of
datum exchange, but it may or may not see a later value.

Having synchronization is quite nice, but nonetheless 'meeting'
objects are at present quite limited.  It would be nice to enable a
"pseudo-thread" to wait simultaneously on more than one meeting.
Whether and how best to implement this is a matter for further
consideration.

Here is an example of the use of a meeting object:

@example
(set-default-event-loop!) ;; if none has yet been set
(define m1 (make-meeting))

(a-sync (lambda (await resume)
	  (let loop ([datum (meeting-receive await resume m1)])
	    (when (not (eq? datum 'stop-iteration))
	      (display datum)
	      (newline)
	      (loop (meeting-receive await resume m1))))))

(a-sync (lambda (await resume)
	  (let loop ([count 0])
	    (if (< count 4)
		(begin
		  (meeting-send await resume m1 count)
		  (loop (+ count 1)))
		(meeting-close m1)))))
(event-loop-run!)
@end example

The (a-sync meeting) library file provides the following procedures:

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} make-meeting [loop]
This procedure makes and returns a meeting object.  Meetings are
objects on which two a-sync or compose-a-sync blocks running on the
same event loop can synchronize by one passing a datum to the other.
The 'loop' argument specifies the event loop (as constructed by
make-event-loop in the (a-sync event-loop) library file) with respect
to which the meeting will be held: it is an error if the meeting-send
or meeting-receive procedures are passed a different event loop as an
argument.  The 'loop' argument is optional - if none is passed, or #f
is passed, then the default event loop will be chosen.

Strictly speaking this procedure can be called in any native OS
thread, but since it carries out no synchronization of native threads
the user would have to provide her own synchronization if called in
other than the thread of the event loop with respect to which the
meeting will be held; so it is best if this procedure is called in the
thread of that event loop.

This procedure is first available in version 0.13 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} meeting? obj
This procedure indicates whether 'obj' is a meeting object constructed
by make-meeting.

This procedure is first available in version 0.13 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} meeting-close meeting
This closes a meeting object.  It's purpose is to wake up any
"pseudo-thread" (that is, any a-sync or compose-a-sync block) waiting
in meeting-send or meeting-receive by causing either procedure to
return with a 'stop-iteration value.

Where that is not necessary (say, the receiver already knows how many
items are to be sent), then this procedure does not need to be
applied.  It is not needed in order to release resources.

This procedure is first available in version 0.13 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} meeting-send await resume [loop] meeting datum
This sends a datum to a receiver which is running on the same event
loop as the sender, via the meeting object 'meeting'.  If no receiver
is waiting for the datum, this procedure waits until a receiver calls
meeting-receive to request the datum.  If a receiver is already
waiting, this procedure passes on the datum and returns immediately.

The 'loop' argument is optional.  If not supplied, or #f is passed,
this procedure will use the default event loop.  It is an error if
this procedure is given a different event loop than the one which was
passed to make-meeting on constructing the 'meeting' object.

This procedure is intended to be called within a waitable procedure
invoked by a-sync (which supplies the 'await' and 'resume' arguments).

It is an error for a sender to invoke this procedure when another
a-sync or compose-a-sync block running on the event loop concerned is
already waiting to send on the same 'meeting' object.  Any one meeting
is intended to be held between a co-operating pair of blocks, not
more.  However, once a datum exchange has taken place, the meeting
object can be reused for making another exchange (provided the meeting
object has not been closed).

This procedure must be called in the native OS thread in which the
event loop concerned runs.  To have other native OS threads
communicate with an event-loop, use await-task-in-thread!,
await-task-in-event-loop!, await-generator-in-thread! or
await-generator-in-event-loop!.

This procedure always returns #f unless meeting-close has been applied
to the meeting object, in which case 'stop-iteration is returned.

This procedure is first available in version 0.13 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} meeting-receive await resume [loop] meeting
This receives a datum from a sender running on the same event loop as
the receiver, via the meeting object 'meeting'.  If no sender is
waiting to pass the datum, this procedure waits until a sender calls
meeting-send to provide the datum.  If a sender is already waiting,
this procedure returns immediately with the datum supplied.

The 'loop' argument is optional.  If not supplied, or #f is passed,
this procedure will use the default event loop.  It is an error if
this procedure is given a different event loop than the one which was
passed to make-meeting on constructing the 'meeting' object.

This procedure is intended to be called within a waitable procedure
invoked by a-sync (which supplies the 'await' and 'resume' arguments).

It is an error for a receiver to invoke this procedure when another
a-sync or compose-a-sync block running on the event loop concerned is
already waiting to receive from the same 'meeting' object.  Any one
meeting is intended to be held between a co-operating pair of blocks,
not more.  However, once a datum exchange has taken place, the meeting
object can be reused for making another exchange (provided the meeting
object has not been closed).

This procedure must be called in the native OS thread in which the
event loop concerned runs.  To have other native OS threads
communicate with an event-loop, use await-task-in-thread!,
await-task-in-event-loop!, await-generator-in-thread! or
await-generator-in-event-loop!.

This procedure always returns the datum value supplied by meeting-send
unless meeting-close has been applied to the meeting object, in which
case 'stop-iteration is returned.

This procedure is first available in version 0.13 of this library.
@end deffn
