@node thread pool,compose,event loop,Top

This (a-sync thread-pool) library file supplements the @ref{event
loop,,(a-sync event-loop)} library file.  (a-sync event-loop) provides
asynchronous procedures which can wait on the completion of a task
running in a worker thread or on an event loop running in another
thread.  However, sometimes it is better to run tasks in a thread pool
rather than launching worker threads, particularly where the workload
suits having the number of threads in the thread pool approximating to
the number of local processors available to the program.

This (a-sync thread-pool) library file provides such a thread pool,
together with two asynchronous procedures (await-task-in-thread-pool!
and await-generator-in-thread-pool!) which can wait in an event loop
for a task on the thread pool to complete and provide its result.

The thread pool objects provided by this library file do not make
provision for rate limiting similar to that provided by the event
loops in @ref{event loop,,(a-sync event-loop)}.  This is because there
is no one-size-fits-all way of doing so.  One common approach is, as
in the case of the event loops provided by this library, to apply
throttling to threads which add tasks by enforcing a wait in their
thread of execution when the level of queued tasks reaches too high a
level, so hindering their ability to add new ones.  However this is
counter productive where it is a task running on the thread pool which
is adding the new tasks, particularly with a thread pool having only a
few threads running in its pool.  Another approach is to throw an
exception when adding tasks which exceed a user-selectable level.

The best approach is for user code to provide its own rate limiting in
cases where the way that that code is organised means that it could
produce an excessive number of accumulating unexecuted tasks in the
thread pool, possibly by applying delays when unexecuted tasks rise in
number excessively, using timeouts with an event loop. This may be
checked for by having code call the thread-pool-get-num-tasks
procedure before adding a significant batch of new tasks in order to
test queue size, and if necessary postpone adding the new tasks until
the size of the already accumulated tasks has reduced.

This library file provides the following procedures:

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} make-thread-pool size [non-blocking]
This procedure constructs a thread pool object of native OS threads.
The 'size' argument specifies the number of threads which will run in
the pool, and must be greater than 0.  The 'non-blocking' argument is
optional and affects the operation of the thread-pool-stop!
procedure.  When set to #f, which is the default, that procedure will
not return until all tasks previously added to the pool have
completed.  If set to #t, the thread-pool-stop! procedure will return
immediately, before all tasks have finished.

The 'size' and 'non-blocking' settings may subsequently be altered by
applying the thread-pool-change-size! or thread-pool-set-non-blocking!
procedure to the pool.

Thread pool objects are usually best kept as top level objects,
because threads in the pool will keep alive until thread-pool-stop! is
called.  If a thread pool is constructed within a local lexical scope,
then either thread-pool-stop! must be applied to the pool before that
scope is exited, or the last task added to the pool should itself
apply thread-pool-stop! to the pool (which it can do if 'non-blocking'
is #t).  Otherwise, the threads in the pool will remain alive
uselessly in blocked condition until the program terminates, even
though the pool may be inaccessible.

This procedure will throw an exception if a 'size' argument of less
than 1 is given, or if the system is unable to start the number of
threads given as the 'size' argument.  If unable to start the number
of threads so given, any threads which have in fact started in the
pool will be killed.

This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} thread-pool? obj
This procedure indicates whether 'obj' is a thread pool object
constructed by make-thread-pool.

This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} thread-pool-get-num-tasks pool
This procedure returns the number of tasks which the thread pool
object is at present either running in the pool or has queued for
execution.  This procedure will not throw.  It is also thread safe,
although it accesses the task number field outside the pool mutex and
therefore with relaxed memory ordering.  That enables this procedure
to be applied more efficiently for rate limiting purposes but the
result might at any one time be marginally out of date.

This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} thread-pool-get-size pool
This procedure returns the current size setting for the thread pool
(namely the number of threads that the pool runs).

This procedure is thread safe (any thread may call it).

This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} thread-pool-change-size! pool delta
This procedure will increase, or if 'delta' is negative reduce, the
number of threads which the thread pool object will run by the value
of 'delta'.  This procedure does nothing if thread-pool-stop! has
previously been called.  This procedure is thread safe - any thread
may call it.

One use for dynamic sizing of this kind is for a task to increment the
thread number where it is about to enter a call which may block
(non-asynchronously) for some time, with a view to decrementing it
later when it has finished making blocking calls, so as to enable
another thread to keep a core active.  A with-thread-pool-increment
macro is available which will do this for you automatically in an
exception-safe way (see the documentation on that macro below).

Alternatively, this procedure can be used to reduce thread usage when
a full set of threads is no longer required by the program.

If 'delta' is positive, this procedure may raise an exception if the
system is unable to start the required new threads.  Because starting
new threads can be time consuming, to minimize contention new threads
are started outside the pool's mutex, although internal book-keeping
is done within the mutex.  One consequence is that if such an
exception is raised while another thread has concurrently tried to
reduce the size of the pool, the size of the pool may be smaller than
it was when this procedure was called.  In certain circumstances,
after an exception where no new threads can be started, the pool could
have no running threads in it (so that thread-pool-get-size returns 0)
even though some tasks previously added to the pool remain pending.
If the system can start no new threads even though none are running in
the pool, it will be significantly broken so it is not usually worth
troubling about this - the program is doomed in that event whatever.
However if that is wrong and the cause of the failure to start any
threads can be addressed, then the thread pool can be brought back
into use by calling this procedure again.

This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} thread-pool-get-non-blocking pool
This procedure returns the current non-blocking status of the thread
pool.  (See the documentation on the thread-pool-stop! procedure for
more information about what that means.)

This procedure is thread safe (any thread may call it).

This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} thread-pool-set-non-blocking! pool val
This procedure sets the non-blocking status of the thread pool.  If
'val' is #f, the thread-pool-stop procedure will block, if #t it will
not.  (See the documentation on the thread-pool-stop! procedure for
more information about this.)

This procedure is thread safe (any thread may call it).

This procedure will raise a &violation exception if it is invoked
after the thread pool object concerned has been closed by a call to
thread-pool-stop!.

This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} thread-pool-stop! pool
This procedure will cause the thread-pool object to stop running
tasks.  However, all tasks already running or queued for execution
will be permitted to execute and complete normally.  If the
thread-pool's non-blocking setting is set to #f, this procedure will
wait until all the tasks still to execute have finished before
returning, and if #t it will return straight away.

After this procedure has been called, any attempt to add further tasks
with the thread-pool-add! procedure will fail, and that procedure will
raise a &violation exception.  The same exception will be raised if
this procedure is applied to a thread pool to which this procedure has
previously been applied.

This procedure is thread safe (any thread may call it) unless the
non-blocking setting is #f, in which case no task running on the
thread-pool object may call this procedure.

This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} thread-pool-add! pool task [fail-handler]
This procedure adds a new task to the thread pool.  'task' must be a
thunk.  If one or more threads in the pool are currently blocking and
waiting for a task, then the task will begin executing immediately in
one of the threads.  If not, the task will be queued for execution as
soon as a thread becomes available.  Tasks will be executed in the
order in which they are added to the thread pool object.  This
procedure is thread safe (any thread may call it, including any task
running on the thread pool object).

An optional handler procedure may be passed to 'fail-handler' which
will be invoked if the task raises an exception.  If a task raises an
exception and no handler procedure is provided, the program will
terminate.  The 'fail-handler' procedure will be passed the condition
object for the exception raised.

This procedure will raise a &violation exception if it is invoked
after the thread pool object concerned has been closed by a call to
thread-pool-stop!.

This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Syntax} with-thread-pool-increment pool body0 body1 ...
This macro is intended to be called by a task running on a thread pool
which is about to make a blocking (non-asynchronous) call.  It will
increment the number of threads in 'pool' by 1 (by calling
thread-pool-change-size!) so as to enable a queued task to keep a core
active, and decrement it again when execution of the body clauses has
completed.

The (i) increment, (ii) execution of body clauses, and (iii)
decrement, form the three branches of a dynamic-wind, so the decrement
automatically occurs if control leaves body execution because of an
exception or other jump.

As this macro starts a new thread, it may raise an exception if the
system is unable to start it.  Starting a new thread is also not free
of overhead and it may be worth profiling a prospective use case to
see if running a few more threads in the thread pool than the number
of processors in the system permanently, rather than changing it using
this macro, and letting the OS's scheduler handle the situation, is a
better option.

This macro is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} await-task-in-thread-pool! await resume [loop] pool thunk [handler]
The 'loop' argument is optional.  This procedure will run 'thunk' in
the thread pool specified by the 'pool' argument.  The result of
executing 'thunk' will then be posted to the event loop specified by
the 'loop' argument, or to the default event loop if no 'loop'
argument is provided or if #f is provided as the 'loop' argument
(pattern matching is used to detect the type of the third argument),
and will comprise this procedure's return value.  This procedure is
intended to be called within a waitable procedure invoked by a-sync
(which supplies the 'await' and 'resume' arguments).  It will normally
be necessary to call event-loop-block! on 'loop' (or on the default
event loop) before invoking this procedure.

If the optional 'handler' argument is provided, then that handler will
run if 'thunk' raises an exception, and the return value of the
handler would become the return value of this procedure; otherwise the
program will terminate if an unhandled exception propagates out of
'thunk'.  Note that unlike a handler passed to the thread-pool-add!
procedure, 'handler' will run in the event loop thread and not in a
thread pool thread.  Exceptions raised by the handler procedure will
propagate out of event-loop-run! for the 'loop' event loop.

This procedure calls 'await' and must (like the a-sync procedure) be
called in the same thread as that in which the 'loop' or default event
loop runs (as the case may be).

This procedure calls event-post! in the 'loop' event loop, which could
be subject to throttling (see the documentation for the
make-event-loop procedure for further information).

Exceptions may propagate out of this procedure if they arise while
setting up, which shouldn't happen unless the thread pool given by the
'pool' argument has been closed (in which case a &violation exception
will be raised), the thread pool tries to start an additional native
thread which the operating system fails to supply (which would cause a
system exception to arise) or memory is exhausted.

Here is an example of the use of await-task-in-thread-pool!:
@example
(set-default-event-loop!) ;; if none has yet been set
(let ([pool (make-thread-pool 4)])
  (a-sync (lambda (await resume)
	    (format #t "1 + 1 is ~a\n"
		    (await-task-in-thread-pool! await resume
						pool
						(lambda ()
						  (+ 1 1))))
	    (event-loop-quit!))))
(event-loop-block! #t) ;; because the task runs in another thread
(event-loop-run!)
@end example
This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn

@deffn {Scheme Procedure} await-generator-in-thread-pool! await resume [loop] pool generator proc [handler]
The loop argument is optional.  The 'generator' argument is a
procedure taking one argument, namely a yield argument (see the
documentation on the make-iterator procedure for further details).
This await-generator-in-pool procedure will cause 'generator' to run
as a task in the 'pool' thread pool, and whenever 'generator' yields a
value this will cause 'proc' to execute in the event loop specified by
the 'loop' argument, or in the default event loop if no 'loop'
argument is provided or if #f is provided as the 'loop' argument.
'proc' should be a procedure taking a single argument, namely the
value yielded by the generator.

This procedure is intended to be called within a waitable procedure
invoked by a-sync (which supplies the 'await' and 'resume' arguments).
It will normally be necessary to call event-loop-block! on 'loop' (or
on the default event loop) before invoking this procedure.

If the optional 'handler' argument is provided, then that handler will
run if 'generator' raises an exception; otherwise the program will
terminate if an unhandled exception propagates out of 'generator'.
Note that unlike a handler passed to the thread-pool-add! procedure,
'handler' will run in the event loop thread and not in a thread pool
thread.  This procedure will return #f if the generator completes
normally, or 'chez-a-sync-thread-error if the generator throws an
exception and 'handler' is run (the 'chez-a-sync-thread-error symbol
is reserved to the implementation and should not be yielded by the
generator).  Exceptions thrown by the handler procedure will propagate
out of event-loop-run! for the 'loop' event loop.

This procedure calls 'await' and will return when the generator has
finished or, if 'handler' is provided, upon the generator raising an
exception.  This procedure must (like the a-sync procedure) be called
in the same thread as that in which the 'loop' or default event loop
runs (as the case may be).

This procedure calls event-post! in both the 'loop' event loop, which
could be subject to throttling (see the documentation for the
make-event-loop procedure for further information).

Exceptions may propagate out of this procedure if they arise while
setting up, which shouldn't happen unless the thread loop given by the
'pool' argument has been closed (in which case an &violation exception
will be raised) or memory is exhausted.  Exceptions arising during the
execution of 'proc', if not caught locally, will propagate out of
event-loop-run!  for 'loop' or the default event loop (as the case may
be).

Here is an example of the use of await-generator-in-thread-pool!:
@example
(set-default-event-loop!) ;; if none has yet been set
(let ([pool (make-thread-pool 4)])
  (a-sync (lambda (await resume)
	    (await-generator-in-thread-pool! await resume
					     pool
					     (lambda (yield)
					       (let loop ([count 0])
						 (when (< count 5)
						   (yield (* 2 count))
						   (loop (+ count 1)))))
					     (lambda (val)
					       (display val)
					       (newline)))
	    (event-loop-block! #f))))
(event-loop-block! #t) ;; because the generator runs in another thread
(event-loop-run!)
@end example
This procedure is first available in version 0.16 of this library.
@end deffn
